Open APIs: 
Also known as Public API, there are no restrictions to access these types of APIs because they are publicly available.

Partner APIs: 
A developer needs specific rights or licenses in order to access this type of API because they are not available to the public.

Internal APIs:
Also known as Private APIs, only internal systems expose this type of API. These are usually designed for internal use within a company.
The company uses this type of API among the different internal teams to be able to improve its products and services.

Composite APIs: 
This type of API combines different data and service APIs.
It is a sequence of tasks that run synchronously as a result of the execution, and not at the request of a task. 
Its main uses are to speed up the process of execution and improve the performance of the listeners in the web interfaces.

Web Service API's:
SOAP:
SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) allows different connected devices that run Windows or Linux to communicate using XML. 
The machines don’t need to use the same Operating System because they both understand the language of XML. 
SOAP spent years dominating the online landscape but has cooled off in favor of REST in recent years.

XML-RPC:
RPC - (Remote Procedure Call)
It's remote procedure calling using HTTP as the transport and XML as the encoding. 
XML-RPC is designed to be as simple as possible, while allowing complex data structures to be transmitted, processed and returned.

JSON-RPC:
JSON-RPC is a remote procedure call protocol encoded in JSON. It is similar to the XML-RPC protocol, defining only a few data types and commands.
JSON-RPC allows for notifications and for multiple calls to be sent to the server which may be answered asynchronously

REST:(Representational State Transfer) 
is a very popular Web Communication Service that powers 70% of the web currently. 
Ultimately, REST is similar to SOAP in scope, but the way the two protocols approach the same solutions is very different. 
Deciding which to utilize for a specific project can be a controversial decision for any programmer.
